+++
title = "Rebooting the Data Access Hierarchy of Computing Systems"
date = 2017-11-18
draft = false

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Computing and Electromagnetics International Workshop*."
publication_short = "In *CEM*"

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this publication with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references 
#   `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
slides = ""

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/20170621_hwu_cem.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Digital Object Identifier (DOI)
doi = ""

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  caption = "Image credit: [**Unsplash**](https://unsplash.com/photos/jdD8gXaTZsc)"

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = ""
+++

authors = ["Wen-mei Hwu", "Izzat El Hajj", "Simon Garcia de Gonzalo", "Carl Pearson", "Nam Sung Kim", "Deming Chen", "Jinjun Xiong", "Zehra Sura"]

In this paper, we present our view of massively-parallel heterogeneous computing for solving large scientific problems. We start by observing that computing has been the primary driver of major innovations since the beginning of the 21st century. We argue that this is the fruit of decades of progress in computing methods, technology, and systems. A high-level analysis on out-scaling and up-scaling on large supercomputers is given through a time-domain wave-scattering simulation example. The importance of heterogeneous node architectures for good up-scaling is highlighted. A case for low-complexity algorithms is made for continued scale-out towards exascale systems.